====================
Summary of FYEE 2015
====================

:authors: Jason K. Moore
:subtitle: my first education conference
:description: Notes taken during FYEE 2015
:date: 2015-08-09 15:22:00
:slug: fyee-2015
:tags: fyee, education

I recently attended the First-Year Engineering Education Conference in Roanoke,
VA (FYEE_). I decided to go so I could immerse myself in the engineering
education community for both inspiration and preparation for my new lecturer
position at UC Davis. The conference was also very close to my hometown so I
got to visit my family for a few days too. I was worried that the conference
may not be any good because I heard about it from a random email solicitation,
but it ended up being worth the trip out. This post summarizes my notes on the
conference.

.. _FYEE: http://fyee.org

The conference is an independent small (~200 attendees) meeting that
focuses specifically on the first year experience of engineering students. The
attendees were mostly faculty, advising staff, and folks from the few
engineering education departments that exist. The demographics of the attendees
was mind blowing for an engineering conference. There may have been more women
than men and there were many other minority groups that were strongly
represented. The conference had two keynotes, several half day workshops,
various talks, and some tours of Virginia Tech's facilities.

The first keynote was from Miray Pereira, a program manager from DuPont. In my
opinion, her keynote wasn't that noteworthy but there were a few nuggets hidden
in her weird flowchart slides. She gave us some perspective on what skills an
attributes a big corporation would like to see in new engineering hires. She
pointed out that STEM hires are very poor at working in teams and communicating
compared to non-STEM hires. She also said that her engineers were more focused
on activity that impact. She has trouble getting her engineers to accept a
"No" as an invitation to improve their work and often sees young engineers too
focused on having their idea win than on collaboratively developing the
best idea for the company.

The second keynote was from a young professor at ASU, Shawn Jordan. Shawn has
an engineering education degree and has some grants that focus on connecting
the maker movement and engineering education. His talk was quite inspirational
and ultimately had the audience try to define the terms "maker" and "engineer",
seeing if there were commonalities and differences. I was surprised that some
of the professors at my table didn't even know what the maker movement was. I'd
wrongly assumed that all engineers would have probably heard of it. Shawn
showed that many makers don't identify as engineers, and that engineering is
essentially a non-hip profession/activity. But he thinks that we should be
figuring out how to persuade "makers" into becoming engineers. Notes from his
talk:

- I-Corp for learning
- RED Grant
- "failure is a badge of honor in the maker community"
- We need to bring the kind of sharing makers have into the engineering
  community.
- IP prohibits sharing (makers share, companies hide)
- Grade on process instead of the product.
- Laser cutting cardboard is much more efficient than having students 3D
  printing prototypes.

There were other folks at the conference thinking about the maker movement.
Virginia Tech has a maker space for their freshman to hang out in and they also
have a maker space in an honors dormitory. The first one is setup so that all
1800 freshman engineers come through for a ~4 hr session at creating some
things with 3D printers, engravers, etc. It was still quite the infant though
and our tour guides were undergraduates that were focused on telling us about
the specific machines instead of how the educational program worked.

I participated in two workshops, one on coaching and another on assessment.
Both of the workshops were really good. First of all, it was nice being taught by
engineering teachers that think hard about good teaching. Both workshops did
pretty good at active learning and I came away with many new things. The
coaching workshop by Jennifor Groh showed how coaching can be used to help your
students get through tough issues. We were able to practice asking powerful
questions that encouraged the students to self-discover their path forward and
how to be held accountable for the goals they set for themselves. The assessment
workshop had us brainstorming all kinds of assessment methods and working
through the design of some specific assessments for real situations. The main
design issues were:

- setting learning objectives, course context, and who you are trying to
  convince with the evidence
- the actual learning experience
- the assessment implementation plan
- how the assessment data will be used

An aside, during that workshop I heard a lot of high praise for the CATME_
software for teamwork assessment.

.. _CATME: http://info.catme.org

I also met some interesting people. I met a woman from UCI that runs a first
year engineering course there. She has the students construct a quadcopter from
scratch that has to do various tasks like carry a specific payload. I also had
long conversations with the coordinators of the minority programs at Purdue and
UT Austin.

I was disappointed in the scientific rigor of many of the talks. The good
scientists could run a pairwise T-test or maybe an ANOVA and the poor ones
didn't have any science at all. One woman said to me "the last talk was all
about simulation, you didn't miss anything". That's in the eye of the beholder
I suppose. One of the talks I went to was appalling and I can't believe the
author even got accepted. He asked a single women student why she choose
engineering and then went on to make bold claims about why women choose
engineering and what we should do to get more women engineers. He might as well
have been a used car salesman.

I went to quite a few of the talks on minorities in engineering. Barring the
previously mentioned one, all were enlightening in different ways. I learned how
Chinese and Indian students are likely to fit best in hierarchical
student/professor relationships, which explains why I have more trouble getting
my Indian GSoC students to work as equals. I also learned that there is a
strong correlation between the number of women in the medicine and law TV shows
of the 80s/90s to the number of women doctors and lawyers of today. We need a
women MacGyver!

I also watched several talks on flipping the classroom. It seemed to me that
many people are interested in trying flipped or "blended" models but that most
of the speakers were not able to show significant improvements in learning from
their assessments. But most felt that the key was getting students to learn to
learn and for them to "do" to learn, which I agree with and the research
supports. The chair of the session said "we need to teach students like the
residence halls feed them" (i.e. with many choices of the type of learning you
want to do).

Lastly, I watched one talk on a "faculty in residence" program and Boise State.
I'd never heard of such a thing, but this prof lived in the dorms with a cohort
of freshman (along with his wife and child). He was a normal prof but spent
extra time leading extracurricular activities with the students and helping
them with their homework and projects. He was very focused on building a strong
community among the students and giving them a supportive around-the-clock
environment. I was very impressed by the program. He said that all the colleges
had one and it'd been going on for a long time.

I have some criticisms and suggestions for improvement of the conference. The
conference booklet was poorly organized and it was very difficult to arrange
which talks to attend in the different sessions. All they needed to do was to
make a full table of the talks that had all the talks at any given time across
a row, broken up by sessions in columns. There were also too many simultaneous
tracks. I'd much rather have a single track conference that does one or more of
these:

- Utilized lightning talks. Most people don't need a full 20 minutes to blab
  about their stuff. We could get way more information with 5 minute lightning
  talks.
- Be more selective in the talks. Many of the talks were marginal at best.
- Video the talks and post them online so we can watch the ones we missed.

Also, the circular tables were bad for the talks good for the workshops. And
finally, my pet peeve, was that there were no vegetarian items at the second
lunch even though dietary needs were collected at registration.

Overall the conference was worth attending and I came home with a head full of
ideas and some new connections around the country. I'm not sure I'll get to
work with freshman engineering at first in my new job but I hope to as time
goes on.
