==============
Notebook Entry
==============

:subtitle: November 12, 2014
:category: notebook
:date: 2014-11-12 07:17:50
:slug: notebook-2014-11-12
:tags: notebook, aio


AIO for November 12, 2014



Last week's accomplishments
===========================

- [6 hr] Reworked direct collocation software into a package:
  https://github.com/csu-hmc/opty
- [3 hr] Updated hmc.csuohio.edu Plone installation and maintenance instructions:
  https://github.com/csu-hmc/hmc.csuohio.edu
- [0.5 hr] Wrote to HR with some questions and told them my final date of
  employment.

Last week's issues
==================

None.

This week's objectives
======================

opty

- [4 hr] Implement trapezoidal rule integration and test on parameter id
  problems.

GaitAnalysisToolKit

- [3 hr] Show Sabrina how to install and assign her an issue.

PyDy

- [3 hr] Make all generated Cython files go to a tmp directory.

Inverted Pendulum Paper

- [6 hr] Figure out why convergence is poor for the human parameter set.
- [3 hr] Setup the direct id approach for the Park model.
- [5 hr] Setup the shooting approach for the Park model.

Peturbed Walking Data Paper

- [0.5 hr] Fix the stride/step/gait cycle terminology.
- [3 hr] Create light boxplots instead of the histograms.
- [0.5 hr] Merge Sandy's PR.
- [0.5 hr] Make an appendix with the long tables and other crud.

Steer Torque Paper

- [8 hr] Work on revision, fixing issues reported by Mont.

Website

- [2 hr] Go over server maintenance stuff with Sabrina.

Other

- [3 hr] Reveiw bicycle dynamics paper for VSD.
- [2 hr] Write up consulting proposal and budget.
