==============
Notebook Entry
==============

:subtitle: June 15, 2015
:category: notebook AIO
:date: 2015-06-15 12:00:48
:slug: notebook-2015-06-15
:tags: notebook, aio


AIO for June 15, 2015



Last week's accomplishments
===========================

PyDy

- [16 hr, Done 24 hr] Fix all remaining 0.3.0 milestone bugs in PyDy and make
  the release.
- [0.5 hr, Done 0.3 hr] Respond to mailing list about Sahil's API desing.
- [0.5 hr, Done] Rally the devs for the June 15 release.
- [8 hr, Done 3.4 hr] Update the tutorial to work with PyDy 0.3.0.
- [0.5 hr, Done 0.7 hr] Buy tickets to Austin (plane/train?)
- [1.5 hr, Done 4.1 hr] Review Sahil's work.
- [1 hr, Done 0.3 hr] Meet with Sahil if needed.

Plotly

- [4 hr, Done 5.6 hr] Polish the bicycle control notebook.

EPak AIP Project

- [0.5 hr, Done 0.1 hr] Review contract and see if everything is in order.

HMC Lab

- [1 hr, Done 0.9 hr] Send signed contract back to Ton.

Gait Direct ID Paper

- [3 hr, Done 0.5 hr] Respond to issues on Github.

Extra Accomplishments
=====================

Article Reviews

- [3.6 hr] Reviewed an article for Vehicle Systems Dynamics.
- [0.3 hr] Replied to stuff about the Bulsink review.

Gait Direct ID Paper

- [3.6 hr] Read Hogan 1985 about impedance control.

Missed goals from last week
===========================

EPak AIP Project

- [1 hr] Open issues on Github for all things in the agreement.
- [3 hr] Get familiar with the code base.
- [2 hr] Do a shiny tutorial.
- [2 hr] Fix some issues.

Last week's issues
==================

Burned out some later in the week so I didn't finish all the PyDy work liked
I'd hoped.

This week's objectives
======================

PyDy

- [1 hr] Review and merge the Python 3 support PR.
- [1 hr] Review and merge Sahil's changes to the static directory copying.
- [5 hr] Close all remaining issues for the release.
- [2 hr] Make the release, ship to PyPi and Binstar, make annoucements.
- [2 hr] Change the notebook to use the System class so we can rerun
  simulations.
- [2 hr] Close remaining issues in the tutorial and send notification of the
  release to SciPy.
- [1 hr] Email Jim about how to divide up the tutorial.

EPak AIP Project

- [1 hr] Open issues on Github for all things in the agreement.
- [3 hr] Get familiar with the code base.
- [2 hr] Do a shiny tutorial.
- [2 hr] Fix some issues.

Plotly

- [2 hr] Get the notebook to build with Plotly's system.
- [0.5 hr] Have someone proofread the notebook.

Gait Direct ID Paper

- [1 hr] Post summary of Hogan 1985 and impedance control.
- [3 hr] Comment on all open issues.

Opty

- [10 hr] Try to implement the analytic cost functions.
- [2 hr] More work on bicycle id problem.

TGCS

- [2 hr] Draft outline of the slides.
- [2 hr] Review Ton's proof that the ID works.
- [1 hr] Send outline to Ton with questions about what needs to be in the talk.

Bicycle Research

- [1 hr] Reply to Neils Lommers about bicycle data collection.
- [0.5 hr] Agree to review the Bulsink paper again and reply to Manfred.
