==============
Notebook Entry
==============

:subtitle: April 1, 2015
:category: notebook
:date: 2015-04-01 08:19:48
:slug: notebook-2015-04-01
:tags: notebook, aio


AIO for April 1, 2015



Last week's accomplishments
===========================

This covers the last two weeks March 16-29.

Perturbed Data Paper

- [2 hr, Done 5] Adjust paper to better delineate the pilot trials from finalized
  protocol trials.
- [2 hr, Done 4] Fix Ton's other comments
- [1 hr, Done 0.5 hr] Submit our second version to PeerJ by Tuesday.

- [Done 1.2 hr] Phone call with Ton.
- [Done 1.1 hr] Address copy editor's comments.
- [Done 5.7 hr] Fix Windows build instructions and test on Windows.

Quiet Standing Control Identification Paper

- [4 hr, Done 14 hr] Create a super simple closed loop id that demonstrates the
  systematic error due to id model deficiencies (i.e. missing process noise).

Gait Control Direct ID Paper

- [10 hr, Some done 1.5 hr] Get all of the basic plots in place in the paper.

- [Done 19.4 hr] Increased the speed of the inverse dynamics about 1000X. Data
  processing went from 5-6 minutes a trial to less than a second. Setup unit
  tests for the inverse dynamics.

Yeadon Software Paper

- [Done 1 hr] Reviewed the proof.

Zhoadan Collaboration

- [2 hr, Done 1.6 hr] Review Google Research grant reqs and intro materials.
- [2 hr, Done 1 hr] Meet with Zhoadan on Friday.

SciPy

- [Partially done 0.2 hr] Maybe submit a SymPy tutorial in addition to the PyDy
  one.

Last week's issues
==================

Quiet Standing Control Identification Paper

Didn't get to these:

- [1 hr] Change the acceleration input to have a flat spectrum.
- [4 hr] Try using the linear plant model and see if what happens to the
  indirect id bias.
- [2 hr] Create plot of relative error vs dc step size.

Gait Control Direct ID Paper

Didn't get to this:

- [5 hr] Flesh out the results writing more for a first draft.

Yeadon Software Paper

- [0.5 hr] Paste in the reviewer responses into the commenting section on the
  journal website.

  - Waiting on Chris to submit the proof review.

This week's objectives
======================

Gait Control Direct ID Paper

- [15 hr] Finish up the inverse dynamics speedup.
- [5 hr] Get all the plots in place in the paper.
- [5 hr] Flesh out the results writing more for a first draft.

Yeadon Software Paper

- [0.2 hr] Check in with Chris about proof review.
- [0.5 hr] Paste in the reviewer responses into the commenting section on the
  journal website.

Zhoadan Collaboration

- [2 hr] Work on the proposal.

ISCSB

- [0.5 hr] Determine if I can go to the conference.

SciPy

- [1 hr] Submit SymPy tutorial proposal.

GSoC

- [2 hr] Review proposals.

Biosport Lab

- [4 hr] Help triage the lab contents.
- [10 hr] Get the website back online.
