=======================
2015 Teaching Statement
=======================

:description: Materials for my 2015 faculty application period.
:date: 2015
:status: hidden

My interest in mechanical engineering began in my childhood where I spent many
hours making, tinkering, and discovering how the built environment worked.
These hands-on experiences allowed me to develop a desire to discover the
connection to mathematics and physics in order to improve my projects. Once
that realization occurred, any barriers I had towards learning the engineering
fundamentals were lifted. I hope to bring these kinds of experiences to the
students I teach.

Teaching Philosophy
===================

Traditional engineering pedagogy typically focuses heavily on lecture based
theoretical courses paired with hands-on laboratory courses. The aspects of
creativity, team collaboration, and an infinite possibility of problem
solutions are all too often absent. As a result, undergraduate students are
often left to their own devices outside of the lecture and lab to discover the
skill development and practical side of engineering that they will require in
their future careers. Cookbook instructions for lab experiments or canned
problems with a single solution are virtually never present in the real world.
Often, only the students who participate in extracurricular projects,
internships, or research positions make the connection from theory to practice
early on in the curriculum. Thus, the traditional structure may not be the best
way to maximize student understanding of core engineering principles and
instill the agile problem solving methods students will need in the future.

Although there are variety of motivational reasons students pursue engineering,
I believe introducing the actual practices of engineering early in education
will build passion and interest. Once this door is open, it is much easier to
thread in the skills the students need to become stronger engineers in their
future careers. I would like to see engineering curriculum that mimics the
practice of engineering through an iterative pattern of posing realistic
problems followed by a search for the necessary fundamentals and finally
culminating in the application of the new knowledge to arrive at a solution to
the problem.  Not unlike my childhood experience, this model allows interesting
realistic problems to lead students to the engineering fundamentals as opposed
to trying to present all of the fundamentals before the interesting problems
arrive.

Engineering students are capable of creating and solving problems when they
enter college. We should enrich their entire experience (especially the first
year!) with challenges from real-world problems that leave them begging for the
knowledge and tools that they typically have to slog through during their first
years of school. Richard Miller, President of Olin College, often draws an
analogy between engineering students and violin students: “Can you imagine not
playing the violin until your fourth year of study? Violinists start making
sounds with their instrument the first day of lessons.” Our curriculum could
allow our students to draw the engineering bow across the strings the minute
they step into the classroom. For these early project-based courses to be
effective, however, the latest pedagogical developments must be utilized to
maximize learning potential.

Practical Classroom Examples
============================

In my courses, I provide students with small-scale projects either based on
portions of the projects and problems I have had to solve in practice or from
Resources like the Directory of Projects for First-Year Engineering Students
[1]_. I typically focus on team success and ensure the problems are open-ended
to more closely mimic the practice of engineering. I choose classroom teaching
methods that have evidence-based research backing their tenets. For example,
research shows that peer learning is highly likely to improve both
understanding and retention when intertwined with short lectures. There are
already prominent examples on the UCD campus where these methods are making a
big difference. A recent New York Times article [2]_ highlights the UCD
Chemistry department’s success with peer learning. Teachers that are excited
about new teaching methods can increase students’ understanding and retention
of material more than those that stick with tired curriculum. Another method
that I make use of is rapid in-class assessment; at every break, each student
writes a positive or negative feedback/comment about the last lecture portion
on sticky note, passes it in, and I adjust my teaching after the break based on
the feedback. I tie this in with electronically collected feedback before,
during, and after the course to have data to back my teaching decisions. To
keep up-to-date on topics like these, I follow the education research
literature, especially the summary literature aimed at practicing educators and
plan to attend more “teach the teachers” style workshops in the future.

.. [1] http://www.discovery-press.com/discovery-press/studyengr/projects.asp

.. [2] http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/27/us/college-science-classes-failure-rates-soar-go-back-to-drawing-board.html

Prior Experience and Future Interests
=====================================

A good teacher is also best when they know their material well. I was fortunate
to have spent most of my graduate school years in the UCD MAE department and am
intimately familiar with the undergraduate and graduate curriculum. I have
taught a number of the available courses as both a teaching assistant and a
lecturer. At the undergraduate level I have strong experience with mechanics
and machine design courses along with the dynamics and controls curriculum. For
example, in the Fall of 2012, I was the lecturer for ENG-4 with four TAs under
my supervision and approximately 120 students. I introduced additional updated
components to the curriculum, developed a full suite of openly available
teaching material [3]_, and went well beyond what was expected of me to ensure
my students received the best education I could provide. The TAs and I worked
as a team to execute the course and I had each TA co-instruct the labs. As
aligned with my teaching philosophy, I broke up lectures into 10 minute
segments where 10 minutes of oratory teaching were followed by 10 minutes of
quick team collaborative exercises like in-class sketching. This led to
positive feedback from the students and strong success in their assessments.

I am also well prepared to teach at the graduate level in machine design, solid
mechanics, dynamics, control theory, biomechanics, vehicle dynamics, and
aircraft control. I am interested in developing more modern courses in
biomechanics, optimal control, and the latest in multibody dynamics (e.g. O(N)
methods).This puts me in a good position to maintain and grow many of the
department’s core courses. However, my course topic strengths are not entirely
based on current UCD MAE offerings. I have spent time at Delft University of
Technology, Old Dominion University, Cleveland State University, Stanford
University, and with the Software Carpentry non-profit where I have gleaned
both new course ideas and methodologies to provide stronger connections to
industry. For example, I have experience in teaching computational methods for
data science. I have given numerous workshops and tutorials to scientists and
engineers on simulation, optimization, data analysis, etc. I have been trained
by the Software Carpentry organization in pedagogical methods and teach two-day
workshops around the world to introduce scientists and engineers to the best
practices and methods in scientific computing. The mechanical engineer of the
future will be additionally tasked with data driven engineering. The
engineering curriculum will need to adapt to bring data science into many of
the core courses for our students to stay competitive in the job market.

Finally, I would like to offer teaching workshops in collaboration with the
engineering college and education schools for teaching assistants (TAs) in our
department to improve TA instruction. Some of the topics I want to work on are
co-instruction, collaborative teaching material development, technology in the
classroom, and distilling the latest findings in engineering education to the
faculty, lecturers, and teaching assistants. Furthermore, I hope to serve on
college and campus wide committees that have education improvement topics and
participate in pedagogy trainings at other institutions so that I can bring
back new ideas to our department. For example, UC Davis has created the “I am
STEM” program dedicated to improving our university’s STEM education efforts.
As a lecturer I will be working closely with this program and others to enhance
our offerings in the MAE department. The people that I meet at these campus
groups will be ideal collaborators for pursuing educational grant proposals
such as those under the NSF's Undergraduate Education (DUE) program. This
houses directorates like "Improving Undergraduate STEM Education" and more
interdisciplinary ones such as “Transforming Undergraduate Education in
Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics” that could help empower the
work done in the MAE department.

.. [3] http://www.moorepants.info/jkm/courses/eng4

Diversity Statement
===================

In terms of understanding how diversity plays an important role in the growth
of our societies and the lives of the people in them, I have grown a great deal
from my pre-adult years where I grew up in the still very racially segregated
and homophobic small town southern United States. There I was born into a place
of privilege due to my skin color, gender, and socioeconomic status. I
recognize now how much those factors have played into my upward movement
throughout my life and how my hard work is not the only thing that got me where
I am today. My view of how the world works and what diversity means has had
many positive transformational changes over the years but I would like to
highlight one of the more powerful experiences I have had that has affected how
I behave and make decisions when I am in a teaching role.

The mechanical engineering field unfortunately needs much improvement in
attracting women and having a racially diverse student population, not to
mention other diversification needs. Engineering has a long history of bias
towards the status quo that educational leaders today are trying to unravel and
set straight. Oddities like the dominance of women in early computer science
and the rapid decline of their participation are both functions of our
intentional and unintentional decisions and behavior. Many of these ingrained
societal influences are beyond our control as teachers, but I will be dedicated
to improving this situation with the power that I have. I have been very
fortunate to be involved with several radical communities in terms of
diversification over the years and believe those experiences will help improve
diversity at UCD if I am hired.

I spent eight years running and volunteer teaching at a do-it-yourself bicycle
repair shop which also traditionally suffers from gender and race imbalance.
Using techniques I gleaned from numerous trainings on creating inclusive “safe
space” environments for people of all backgrounds, I was involved with
implementing the latest advice from cultural studies to make the shop as
inclusive as possible. I plan to extend the practices and knowledge from that
experience to the teaching atmosphere at the UCD MAE department to help us
create the most welcoming and inclusive engineering department in the country.

My tenure as an instructor at the bicycle shop taught me many things but the
most significant takeaways were not to take diversity, inclusion, and
marginalization lightly and definitely not to dismiss things that I have not
experienced or do not understand. I also learned to listen to people who think
about these things a lot and let their guidance influence my behavior and
decisions. I now have a strong support group to turn to for advice in difficult
situations. Overall, I have a better awareness and now recognize much more
quickly when situations are not “right” and am willing to stand up for diverse
students needs and know where the best avenues for help are.

There are also more specific examples of practices that I have picked up and
utilize when teaching. I set ground rules in classroom interaction early on
that helps ensure equitable time for students to speak so that traditional
dominators cannot control classroom time. I am generally able to recognize
these patterns and facilitate classroom discussions so that they are inclusive.
I have also been involved with and observed developing specific times and
spaces for marginalized communities, like women, LGBT, etc. This lets similar
groups of learners learn on their own terms instead of those of the dominant
majority. I also work to develop classroom and lab ground rules, such as codes
of conduct and safe space agreements, that are in place for all students to see
and be aware of, whether posted on a sign in the lab or on the classroom
website. I explicitly discuss these ground rules in class and even let the
students collaboratively develop these agreements so they are invested in
abiding by them. I have also learned how a classroom or lab atmosphere can be
exclusive to many groups simply because of things like decor, lighting,
politically incorrect jokes, and general attitudes and behaviors of superiors.
I will be working with various groups to reduce and eliminate these factors in
my courses and labs. Furthermore, I work to ensure that there are anonymous
feedback avenues for students and work to place students in need with the
appropriate campus groups for support, letting them and the support groups help
inform what I need to do to make the classroom accommodating.

Finally, I will be an ally for minority groups in the engineering college and
give what support I can to help them strengthen and grow and will be a strong
proponent of diversification of our selected students, staff, and faculty. My
ethnicity, gender, and socioeconomic status puts me in the “typical engineer”
bucket in terms of diversification but my experiences in life working with and
for marginalized people, from disabled wheelchair fabricators in Zambia to
disenfranchised homeless at the DIY bicycle shop, has instilled the empathy and
understanding deep inside that will play an important role in changing
engineering stereotypes for the next generation.
